- [breathing heavily]
[dogs barking]
[eerie music]
♪
[screams]
Mommy!
Mom!
- Cindy?
Cindy, honey?
Cindy?
[dramatic music]
What is it?
- I saw Daddy.
He wants to change me.
I don't want to be like him!
- Baby, it's okay now.
Daddy is far, far away.
And he won't find us.
All right?
♪
[low eerie music]
[music intensifies]
♪
- [snarling]
- [screams]
[clears throat]
[indistinct chatter]
- Leave my grandson out of
whatever mischief you're up to.
[dramatic music]
- I can talk to whoever I want.
- You'll stay away from him.
Your father was a monster,
and so are you.
- And Jordan Mahkent
was a loser
who got turned into ice cubes
by a pickup truck.
[eerie whooshing]
Hmm.
[ice crackling]
[heroic music]
♪
[Staff humming and beeping]
- [sighs]
- It's an hour past curfew.
- [yelps]
Hey.
Yeah, well...
what are you doing in my room?
- I was waiting
to show you something.
Where were you?
- I was out.
[sighs]
Looking for The Shade.
- The Shade?
Why?
- I ran into him
at the bookstore today.
He was the one who told me
about Dr. Mid-Nite's daughter
and how Eclipso killed her.
A super-villain was more honest
with me than my own stepfather.
- Okay, Court--
- So I went out to go find him,
to learn more,
to ask him to team up.
- To team up?
Have you not
been paying attention?
The Shade is a bad guy.
- Eclipso is evil.
There's a difference.
- We don't need The Shade
to find the black diamond.
We've got the weather.
- The weather?
- The black diamond
brings out a darkness,
not just in people
but in places.
The weather in Nebraska
this week,
clear and sunny statewide.
Except for Blue Valley.
I think it's because
Eclipso is here.
- Even if that's true,
how does bad weather
help us find the diamond?
- I'm not sure.
Yeah, I don't know, but we're
gonna play this out,
and we're not gonna ask
The Shade for help.
He's killed people, Court.
He's not on our side.
- Pat.
I'll stick to the curfew.
I'm sorry.
- I'm sorry I didn't tell you
about Dr. Mid-Nite's daughter.
- And you're sure
there's nothing else?
Because...
- Yeah.
Get some rest.
[dramatic music]
♪
[sighs]
[dog panting]
[dog whimpers]
Hey.
Don't give me that look.
[thunder booming]
[dog whines]
Okay.
You can sleep with us tonight.
Come on.
Let's go.
[thunder booming]
[rain pattering]
[indistinct shouting]
[wind whistling]
- Hey, Dad.
[wind gusting]
[eerie music]
♪
[sighs]
[thunder booming]
♪
[light music]
- Cam!
- Hey.
- How's the mural, my man?
- Good,
but it might rain,
so I came in to use the studio,
if that's all right.
- Have at it.
- Cool.
Thanks.
Oh.
Um...
♪
- That looks a lot
like Courtney Whitmore to me.
- [laughs] I was--
I was just fooling around.
- Or maybe...
you found your muse.
♪
Every great artist has one.
Back when I was doing the best
work of my life, I did.
♪
Anyway, now I'm inspired
to help others find theirs.
- Hi.
[laughs]
Good morning.
- Class is about to start.
We have a lot to talk about.
Like the weather.
- Right.
The weather.
[laughs]
Daily topic, though,
nothing special about it.
[chuckles]
- Let's go.
- Bye.
♪
- Your art can say
everything you can't.
Show her.
♪
[drip echoes]
[eerie music]
♪
[water drips]
[eerie whooshing]
♪
- Hi.
- Cindy.
I thought you moved.
What are you doing here?
- You know, I'd really love
to see some of your work.
I'm sure it's...
better than this.
[laughs]
Sorry about your dad.
[thunder rumbling]
- You remember what you said
to our fourth grade class
after your mom died?
[dramatic music]
You said,
"I never liked her anyway,"
right in front of everyone.
No one ever forgot that, Cindy.
So do not tell me
you're sorry about my dad.
You've never been sorry.
About anything.
♪
- Cam!
Your sketchbook.
It was right in my hand.
- Thanks, Paul.
I think I'll go
take my chances with the rain.
- Good luck, my man.
Miss Burman!
You're back
and showing an interest in art,
I see.
- Hmm.
[eerie whispering]
I dropped out, Paul.
♪
[ethereal music]
- Hello.
- What?
Who said that?
- I'm your new muse.
- Is someone there?
[tense music]
♪
[bell tolling]
[thunder rumbling]
- Ah, Ms. Whitmore.
- [gasps]
- Whoops-a-daisy.
I trust the day finds you well?
- [sighs]
[dramatic music]
- I know who you really are,
Shade.
What are you doing here?
- Look at you, all fired up.
I see where your daughter
gets her bravado,
and you have an extra quality.
It reminds me of someone.
[chuckles]
Someone from long ago.
- Don't get any ideas.
I had enough
of your buddy Jordan
seeing me
as some sort of sick prize.
- Aw, Ms. Whitmore,
you mistake my intentions.
The person you remind me of...
was family.
Now, as to why I'm here?
Your daughter spent last night
searching for me.
You simply must tell her
to refrain
from interfering in my affairs.
- We want to know what you know
about the black diamond,
this weird weather.
- Oh, so you worked
that much out.
But, Ms. Whitmore,
the weather is simply
the prelude.
Believe me,
you do not want
to see the finale.
Now...
better that you never speak
of that cursed gem again.
And as for your daughter
and her friends...
They're far too young
to face the horror within.
I warn you.
- You came here to warn me?
Why do you even care?
- Oh, trust me, I do not.
But if your daughter,
in all her tiresome snooping,
gets wind of the location
of the black diamond,
she'd be well advised
to give that information to you
to convey to me.
It's by far the safest course
of action for your family.
And you and Pat Dugan know it.
- Even if I did believe you,
that card you gave me
had no way to contact you.
- Perhaps you should
take another look.
♪
[sizzling]
- [sighs]
[eerie whooshing]
♪
- Welcome back to
"The Lady Bob and Steve Show"
here on WWPX radio.
- And how about
this wacky weather
here in Blue Valley, huh?
Meteorologists
calling for sunshine,
but all I see are clouds
and thunderstorms
on the horizon.
- Hey, but on the good side,
bear break-ins are down 100%
compared to just over
one week ago,
when Yogi seemed to be
making himself--
[dramatic music]
- Where are we going, Mom?
- Your dad and I are going away
for a little while.
- Mom, Dad, don't leave me!
♪
- [roaring]
- 30 minutes of nonstop hits
starting right now
on the PX.
[Black River Delta's
"Burning and Burning"]
♪
- ♪ I've been
a soulless child ♪
♪ I've been a soulless child
[engine revving]
♪ I was a messed-up kid
♪ With a thorn in my side
♪
♪ They said
I bet you die young, son ♪
♪ Yeah, I bet you die young
- Do you need something?
- From you?
Nope.
- ♪ So are you
♪ Trying to change my ways
♪ Oh, you see,
I'm burning and burning ♪
♪ All the way down
[tires squealing]
- Jerk.
[thunder rumbling]
- The weather is the key.
If we use the goggles to track
the patterns, then we--
- You said you saw
Dr. Mid-Nite die, Mr. Dugan.
- I did, but it can't be
that that's what--
- It could be!
- All right, well, Beth,
I'm just trying to tell you--
- No, it could be.
- Guys, hey.
What's going on?
- Rick!
I heard him through
the goggles last night.
- Chuck?
- Not Chuck,
Dr. Charles McNider,
the first Dr. Mid-Nite!
[laughs]
That's why he didn't know me.
- So the goggles
are a Ouija board now?
- They can't talk
to the dead, Beth.
- So maybe
he's still alive somewhere,
and wherever he is,
he might need our help.
- Listen, I hope
that it is Dr. McNider,
more than anything,
but that's exactly
why we need to be cautious.
Could be Eclipso, Beth.
[ominous music]
He can make you see things,
hear things,
things you fear,
things you want.
♪
- But what if Beth
is right, Pat?
[somber music]
♪
- [sighs] I mean,
that was your teammate.
♪
- If Beth's right
and Dr. McNider is alive,
then we won't rest
until we find him.
But until you hear
his voice again,
we need to focus
on the weather patterns.
And finding the black diamond.
♪
[thunder rumbling]
- [coughing]
[clears throat]
Excuse me.
And okay, the last
of the famous conflicts
to consider for your report
is one of my faves,
the Trojan War,
reportedly fought in honor
of a woman, Helen of Troy.
[chuckles]
A historical muse, if you will.
♪
[coughs, clears throat]
Excuse me again, I...
Where was I?
[coughing]
Why don't we end
a few minutes early today?
I'll see you all tomorrow.
[eerie whispering]
♪
[retching]
[electricity crackling]
♪
[soft dramatic music]
- You didn't have to come.
- Well, I'm concerned too.
Look at all these.
Remember what
The Thunderbolt said?
Mike's...lonely.
- No, I know,
and I appreciate
your reminding me.
I'll keep that in mind.
- Got plenty of them.
Got a pile out back.
I'll find you a good one.
- Hey, guys.
- Oh, hey there, Dugan.
- How you doing?
- Well, here she is.
Fun for the whole family.
$50 discount
if you take her away right now.
- Yeah, well, we're not gonna
be getting a station wagon,
Zeek,
but I do appreciate
your calling me,
and it's good to see you.
- Yeah, you too.
- So what are you doing?
- Trying to help.
- By buying a car?
- Well, yeah.
I figured once it's souped up,
it would be a good getaway car
for the team.
- Okay, Dugan.
[laughing] Okay.
$75 off, final offer.
Take her away!
- Say, Zeek, you mind
just giving us a minute
so we can talk?
- Oh, yeah, sure thing.
You all take all the time
you need.
And don't forget:
you break it--
- You buy it, got it.
- Hey.
- I remember.
- I like that,
got a nice ring to it.
Miss.
- So, Mike, you can't be
dragging me and Barb
all the way out here, okay?
- I don't mind the trip.
- I appreciate the initiative,
Mike, the drive.
I mean, I wish you had it
in school and at your job,
but it's a goal
we can work towards,
but what's going on now,
it's dangerous.
- I know.
The Shade, I was--
- And more.
I get your frustration, Mike,
more than you know, okay?
I understand it.
[warm music]
♪
So let's find a JSA project
that we can work on.
Together.
- Really?
- Yeah, you know,
we'll start
with a small one and--
- Yeah, yeah, it's--
- Okay?
- It's cool.
It's great.
- It'll be good. Yeah.
- Awesome.
- Yeah.
♪
- Thanks, Dad.
- You got it.
[pats back]
All right.
Let's head home.
[thunder booming]
- Abuela's knees always ache
when it rains.
- How are your headaches?
- Better, actually.
I've been so focused
on Eclipso.
Maybe it's taken my mind off
what happened a bit.
[indistinct shouting]
- You go on ahead.
Look, Pat and my mom
said no matter
what we're dealing with,
we can't let the rest
of our lives fall apart.
I'll--I'll catch up.
- Courtney.
- If anything big happens,
text me.
♪
Whoa.
It's really coming along.
- Thanks.
- I love the colors.
Is that...
- Yeah, it's gonna be
my dad.
[wind gusting]
You know, I wanted
to show you something,
but it's--it's kind of weird.
- Weird how?
- Well, usually
I do still lifes,
but lately, I've started
trying my hand
at people.
♪
- It's me.
[laughs]
- Yeah.
♪
[ethereal music]
- [coughs]
- You have been blessed.
[eerie whispering]
- Who are you?
- I am your inspiration,
your muse.
Your artistry deserves to be
witnessed again, doesn't it?
- Yes.
- What do you see?
♪
- Nothing.
- What...do...you...see?
- I see.
I see it now.
It's beautiful.
- Show the world.
[cackles]
[tense music]
♪
- Wow.
- My mom loved the yard.
[chuckles]
That's why
they bought the house.
For the gardens.
My grandparents want to move,
but...
Blue Valley is my home.
At least until I graduate.
- Then what?
- Well, I don't know.
I thought maybe I'd go
to art school like my mom,
but now so many people
have told me
how much my dad
has changed their lives,
being an artist
feels kind of selfish.
- [sighs]
Denying the world of your
talent could seem selfish too.
[chuckles]
[warm music]
♪
[cell phone dings and buzzes]
Oops.
Sorry, just--
[laughs]
Um...
- Everything okay?
- Yeah, I--
[cell phone dings and buzzes]
- Um...
I have to go.
I'm so sorry.
- The drawing weirded you out,
didn't it?
- No!
Not at all.
You can sketch me
as many times as you want.
[laughs]
[cell phone dings and buzzes]
I--I really have to go.
[cell phone dinging
and buzzing]
- You did this to me
last year, Courtney.
You always leave.
[somber music]
Or never show.
- Last time.
I promise.
I'm really sorry.
♪
[cell phone dings and buzzes]
[dramatic music]
♪
- I've been tracking
the weather patterns
and the wind's epicenter.
[thunder booming]
[dramatic music]
Yup.
It's right above us.
- Does that mean
the diamond's inside?
- According to Pat,
it's a possibility.
- Where is Pat?
- With Mike.
He's meeting us here.
Said to wait, but--
- What?
- That's Mr. Deisinger's car.
- What's Mr. Deisinger's car
doing here so late?
- If the diamond is in there,
he could be in trouble.
♪
[thunder booming]
[ominous music]
♪
[low growl]
- What is it?
[computer blipping]
- Some kind of
electrical disturbance.
[electricity crackling]
♪
- What the hell happened
in here?
- Where's Mr. Deisinger?
♪
[dark choral music]
[high-pitched ringing]
- Yolanda.
- [screaming]
- Yolanda?
- [grunting]
Yolanda!
Yolanda, stop!
[wind gusting]
♪
- [speaking indistinctly,
distortedly]
♪
[dramatic music]
- Court?
- What is that?
- Eclipso.
♪
- Beth, move!
[grunts]
♪
- He's dead because of you.
They both are.
Over here, Rick.
- [roaring]
- Mm, who's the monster?
Him?
- [shouts]
- Or you?
- Shut up.
Shut up!
- Look at what's happening
to your life.
It's being ripped apart.
- You don't have time
for this family anymore.
- You never wanted
this family!
- [screams]
- Guys!
- [grunting]
- I can fix this.
- [shouting]
♪
- I see it all!
- [moans]
- You stupid animal.
You stupid animal!
- Court!
- Mr. Deisinger!
♪
The black diamond,
do you have it?
- I am blinded by its darkness!
I see nothing, only darkness.
- Then you need to see
the light.
I think I can help you!
- No one can help me.
- Can you see the light?
- I can feel it.
- Grab it!
♪
[whirring]
- [breathing heavily]
- Where did the paintings go?
I don't know.
- What just happened?
♪
[Staff whooshing]
- [groans]
- Mr. Deisinger?
- My muse.
I lost my muse.
[thunder booming]
- How's Mr. Deisinger?
- Under psychiatric evaluation.
I told him you forgot
something at school
and that you found him.
- He made us see things.
- Things that...
weren't really there.
- It was like Eclipso was
working through Mr. Deisinger.
It was so scary.
- But he didn't have
the black diamond on him?
- No.
- Eclipso's getting stronger.
- What do you mean?
- I mean that his powers,
they're spreading beyond
the black diamond.
♪
[birds chirping]
- There you are.
[both chuckle]
- We saw breakfast but not you.
- Uh, Beth?
- I can't pretend anymore.
I found divorce papers.
What is going on?
I deserve to know!
- Mm.
[clears throat]
- It's a mutual decision.
- Yeah, we just, uh...
We haven't decided
to go through with it yet.
Look, Beth...
you know that doesn't change
how much we love you, right?
- I don't understand.
[soft dramatic music]
♪
- I really do need
to get to the hospital,
but maybe we should talk more
tonight as a family.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah?
- Let's--let's do that.
All right?
[sighs]
Hey.
♪
- Why is the plan changing,
Burman?
I thought it was gonna be
four on four.
- Forget Cameron.
He wasn't worth the trouble.
[ominous music]
The diamond
is all the help we need.
- What is it?
- It's power that I control.
- So let's get on with it.
- Oh, we are.
There's just one more
little piece to the puzzle.
♪
[laughs]
[indistinct shouting]
[eerie whooshing]
- [gasps]
[grunts]
♪
[ice crackling]
[thunder booming]
♪
- Greg, move your head!